Chelsea interim boss Calum McFarlane has been speaking to the media before Monday's Premier League game against Nottingham Forest at Stamford Bridge (kick-off 15:00).

Here are the key lines from his news conference:

    On team news, McFarlane said captain Reece James is back in training while Levi Colwill is also "looking promising." He added they are taking it "day by day" as there are "a lot of games still to play so we don't want to push too much".

    Both players could "potentially" be involved in the squad.

    On James as captain: "Reece has been brilliant from the day I stepped up in January. He's injured this time around so it is a different role. He loves and cares about the club and has tournament experience."

    On Enzo Fernandez, Marc Cucurella and Joao Pedro going to watch the tennis in Madrid: "It says a lot about the group that they go away together. I love that they spend time together. They went to Madrid to watch tennis, I don't see an issue. It's a positive sign for the unity of the group."

    On being in the dugout at Stamford Bridge: "I've been involved at games at Stamford Bridge as assistant and support staff but there might be a different feel leading the team and it will be a great honour in front of the Chelsea fans. Really looking forward to it and hoping we can put in a similar level of performance as we did at Wembley."

    On whether Chelsea is an attractive club to manage: "I don't think I have to sell that in all honesty, it's one of the biggest clubs in the world, great history of winning, we've got some unbelievable players, some of the best players in the world, great training facilities. You've got everything you could want."

    On the crowd: "We need the crowd to bring a positive energy and get behind the team. We all want to do well for this club and we want to win every single game. We want to win as many games as possible."

    On the possibility of Champions League qualification: "We just have to win our games and not worry about anything else. We have to just focus on ourselves. We want to be in the Champions League, we want to be in Europe."